In this lesson, we're going to look at
describing the benefits of high
availability and scalability in the
cloud. Now, when we think about cloud
computing, what exactly is it? There's a
joke. There's no such thing as the
cloud. It's just someone else's PC. And
there's a lot of truth
there. We often think about
capacity. Capacity is something that
enables services to run. they have some
management platform, some user
experience. So we can consume the
service. Now on premises, if I think
about my local data
center in my on premises
weld my capacity is provided by well I
have various types of server.
I'll have network switches providing
network throughput. I'll have storage
area
networks, other types of network
attached storage, but these are all
providing
capacity for the workloads I want to run
on premises. And then on top of that
capacity or maybe I'm running virtual
machines, maybe I'm using containers and
so I'm creating pods that run a certain
container image. But I can think of on
the
capacity. Well, there's different types
of service that capacity provides that I
can then install my business
applications on and actually use.
on premises I'm bound by the physical
hardware I have and obviously I have to
buy it in advance and I'm always paying
for
it. If we now think about well how does
that work in the cloud? In the cloud
that capacity is huge in scale that are
housed in data centers all around the
world. I can think about there are
specific sets of data centers. So if we
now pivot to thinking about the cloud,
I'm going to draw this massive
idea and this is
Azure. All around the world there are
these groups of data centers. So there's
these various groupings
available certain proximity to each
other and we think about we group these
based on a certain amount of proximity.
So I could say, well, okay, this is a
region. And you'll hear that term a lot.
That might be region
one. This is another region. So that's
region two. And so on top of all of this
capacity, I can then run the various
different services. And in the cloud,
there's more types of service available
to you. Yes, there's obviously things
like, hey, I can go and spin up a
virtual machine. I can use container
environments like
Kubernetes, but I might also have
database offerings that are managed for
me. There might be artificial
intelligence and machine learning
services that I can go and
consume and many many others. So we get
this many different
types of services, hundreds of them
available that I can go and consume and
I have a lot of flexibility in where I
can go and consume that. If we jump over
and we look at Microsoft's map, all of
these blue dots are existing regions and
again within those regions can click on
one of them. They will have many data
centers and we can see information about
when did it
open different compliance offerings that
are available plus many more. And so I
as a
customer have great flexibility that I
can go and consume services from points
all around the world. That gives me
flexibility in terms of well I might
want them in lots of places for
resiliency from any kind of failure but
also if my customers are distributed all
around the world well it would be great
to offer my services close to the
customers so they get a fantastic
experience. There's not a long delay and
having to go really long distance over
the
network. And so what all of these
different types of services and
available in so many different places
gives me is this fantastic
agility because I'm only paying for the
service I consume. I don't get locked
into I've bought this server, I have to
use this server. I can change where I
want to host my services. I could host
it in more places. I could host it in
fewer. I could change where I host it. I
can switch sizes of VM, number of VM. I
could switch from VMs to containers to
app services. I can switch database
sizes. There's no penalty for me because
I just pay for what I'm consuming
typically on a per second basis. It's
also fantastic because it means if I do
make a mistake, I've done a sizing
exercise, I've picked a certain service,
and then if I work out that's not the
right thing, I can very easily change.
Now, if I switch from VMs to containers
or app service, there may be some
application development effort, but
that's completely different from being
locked into a particular set of
infrastructure I may have purchased.
Another key concept when we architect
any solution but it includes the cloud
is high
availability. High availability is about
ensuring that if certain types of events
occur around disruption our service
continues to
function. Now every single Azure
resource has its own specific service
level agreement or SLA. This is a
financially backed guarantee around what
you can expect in terms of its
availability to be communicated with to
be used and if it breaks that SLA you
get a certain financial credit back. We
cover SLAs's later in this course. It's
important to understand the SLA your
solution needs so I can then architect
it accordingly.
Now, very often to meet my high
availability, it means I need multiple
instances of my resource over different
blast radiuses. And a blast radius, you
can think of, well, a server can fail.
So, I'd want to make sure my instances
were in different servers. An entire
server rack could have a power supply or
a network switch failure. So, I'd want
to make sure I'm in different racks. But
data centers can have failures. Maybe
calling, maybe their power. So I might
want to distribute over multiple data
centers. And so we think about what is
the blast radius I want high
availability for. And then by being able
to distribute them, I'm able to survive
larger potential blast radius type
problems. So different servers,
different racks, likely different data
centers. So in this case, I would think
about from a a high availability
If I thought that this was a specific
region and we have this concept of
availability zones which again we'll
cover later but they're isolated sets of
data centers independent power calling
networking. So for my high availability
at minimum well I'd want to make sure I
got at least two instances of my service
in completely different sets of data
centers which means I'm also getting
resilience from rack level or node level
failures because hey I've got that nice
distance between
them. Now additionally you do have to
think about disaster recovery. So we
think typically of high availability I
might think within a certain location
they're close together I can do
different types of replication without
any risk of data loss but then if there
was this horrible region level outage
well then we might think about disaster
recovery and so disaster recovery would
mean I have the ability to run my
workload in another region. So we think
of this as dr. And what I would want
here is a very big
distance. I might think hundreds of
miles because I want to make sure if
there was some natural disaster here,
but it doesn't impact this region as
well. Now the form that disaster
recovery takes will vary greatly. It
depends on how long I have for my
service to be able to be up and running
again. Maybe it's I create the new
resource, I restore a backup. Maybe I'm
constantly replicating data and it's
kind of ready to start up. Or maybe I
really don't have a lot of time at all
and so it's constantly synchronizing.
It's running and I would just switch
something over. Modern architectures I
may even be running active in lots of
regions. Then there's some endpoint that
enables the client to go to whichever
one is currently active or is closest to
them.
And so that agility I spoke about to
have that flexibility and only pay for
what I'm consuming when I need it, that
also gives me something called
elasticity for my services capacity
because I can think about well over time
the amount of work that my service needs
to perform is going to vary depending on
maybe what's coming in. And so what I
want is this ability to scale my various
workloads. So let's now think about this
idea that I want to provide
scalability and as part of that I get
this great elasticity.
My service can grow and shrink based on
the work it needs to actually do to
service the number of incoming
requests. And I could think about many
different types of
workload have some element of
seasonality. And what I mean by that is
if we think about
time and the work I need to
do very often it's not a flat line. Very
often there's some peak of work to do,
maybe a really quiet time, maybe another
peak, maybe a more average amount of
time. And that could vary. This could be
daily, weekly, monthly, yearly, maybe
even every few years. Consider a tax
application. It's really busy for one
month out of the year. A pizza site is
busy for a few hours a night. It's even
busy on a Friday and a Saturday night.
The Olympics, hey, I'm hosting the
Olympics. I'm busy every four years. And
so there's this variance in the amount
of work my service needs to do. And what
I don't want to do is for my service to
always operate to be able to handle the
peak. That's what we have to do on
premises. We have to buy all the servers
for the busy times. And often they're
very idle. What I want instead to be
able to do is for my service in the
cloud because I pay for only when it's
running on a per second basis. I want to
change the amount of service I have at
any moment in time to match the amount
of work it actually needs to do. And
that could be I'm manually doing that
scaling or maybe I want to automatically
do that. For example, I could say, hey,
look, for the instances I'm running, if
the CPU is over 70%, we'll add some more
instances. If the CPU is less than 30%,
let's remove some. So we have this great
flexibility. Now how can I do this
scaling? One option would be to scale
vertically. So I could do a
vertical scale. And what this is meaning
is I have my instance and if I'm scaling
vertically well I'm making it
bigger. I'm adding more CPUs. I'm adding
more
memory. In reality, that would mean I
have to stop the instance. I would stop
the workload. I would resize it and
start it again. That's because very few
operating systems actually support
adding much less removing CPUs or
memory. Neither fewer applications would
handle it, which means I'd have
downtime. Also, I don't want just one
instance. Remember, that's not good for
my high availability where I'd rather
have more smaller instances. And so
while I can do that, we give this a
little bit of a a frowny face. We try
not to do that. The much better option
is to scale
horizontally. So I can do
horizontal scale, which means obviously
I'm scaling this way. And here we just
have a certain number of instances. And
if we're getting busier, well, we add
some new
ones. If we're getting quiet, well, we
could remove
some. And this is the type of scaling we
want to do in the cloud. We give that a
happy
face. And this is how the cloud is
designed because now I've got no
downtime. I'm just adding and removing
instances. Again, there'd be some kind
of balancing solution that the client
would talk to to then balance between
the ones that do exist at a moment in
time. And we would typically never scale
to less than two because remember for
our high
availability. I always want at least
two. Now horizontal scanning does
require your application to support more
than one instance of it. But again in
modern architectures that's becoming
very very common. And so when you think
of the cloud we think we want to pay on
a per second basis for the amount of
work we're actually doing. And
horizontal scale lets us do that. and we
could automatically say hey look CPU is
busier than a certain amount or Q depth
is above a certain number let's add some
hey we're not doing very much work let's
remove some instances and that could be
automatic it could be scheduled it could
be manual so those are the key concepts
I wanted to cover in this we think about
we have great agility we can have many
different types of service we can change
their sizes we can change the service we
want to
use this concept of high availability by
having multiple instances spread over
different blast
radiuses. And then we have this
elasticity, the ability to scale, yes,
vertically by making them bigger or
smaller, but more commonly we're going
to scale horizontally by adding and
removing based on the amount of work
that varies over type.